# Qcore

Qcore implements smart pointers, type introspection, efficient arrays and maps, fast sorting, about 20 image formats from scratch, image processing, various algorithms for data compression, some pieces from computational geometry, and a lightweight 3D engine.

In [Graphics/Color/](Qcore/Graphics/Color), you can see classes that are representing colors from several color models, namely RGB, RGBA, CMYK, CMYK-with-alpha, L*a*b*, L*a*b*-with-alpha, XYZ, and YCC, the class that represents colors in color palettes, as well as the ColorModelConversion class ([.h](Qcore/Graphics/Color/QColorModelConversion.h), [.cpp](Qcore/Graphics/Color/QColorModelConversion.cpp)) that lets you convert colors between different color models.

The puzzle of a hardware-based 3D engine is put together in [Graphics/HardwareRendering/Rendering3d/](Qcore/Graphics/HardwareRendering/Rendering3d). The engine was designed to be driver-abstract and allow for switching between OpenGL and DirectX by simply selecting the respective class to be used for 3D rendering. The OpenGL abstraction layer was implemented first ([.h](Qcore/Graphics/HardwareRendering/Rendering3d/OpenGL/QOpenGLRendering.h), [.cpp](Qcore/Graphics/HardwareRendering/Rendering3d/OpenGL/QOpenGLRendering.cpp), [.inl](Qcore/Graphics/HardwareRendering/Rendering3d/OpenGL/QOpenGLRendering.inl)) and turned out to be good enough to remain in perfect solitude.

A number of classes closely related to raster graphics and raster images have found their home in [Graphics/RasterImagic/](Qcore/Graphics/RasterImagic). Here you can find the QRasterImage class ([.h](Qcore/Graphics/RasterImagic/QRasterImage.h), [.cpp](Qcore/Graphics/RasterImagic/QRasterImage.cpp), [.inl](Qcore/Graphics/RasterImagic/QRasterImage.inl)) that represents raster images and provides support for 10 color models (called "modes" in Photoshop), 33 different image types, and high-dynamic-range imaging (HDR). There is also the QRasterImageConversion class ([.h](Qcore/Graphics/RasterImagic/QRasterImageConversion.h), [.cpp](Qcore/Graphics/RasterImagic/QRasterImageConversion.cpp), [.inl](Qcore/Graphics/RasterImagic/QRasterImageConversion.inl)) that can convert a raster image from one image type into another, effectively converting between different color models and color precisions, and using a dedicated class, which is QRasterImageQuantization ([.h](Qcore/Graphics/RasterImagic/QRasterImageQuantization.h), [.cpp](Qcore/Graphics/RasterImagic/QRasterImageQuantization.cpp), [.inl](Qcore/Graphics/RasterImagic/QRasterImageQuantization.inl)), for finding the most optimal palette based when transforming a true-color image into an indexed image with minimum loss of information possible. Another class in this group, QRasterImageAdjustment ([.h](Qcore/Graphics/RasterImagic/QRasterImageAdjustment.h), [.cpp](Qcore/Graphics/RasterImagic/QRasterImageAdjustment.cpp)), lets you adjust brightness, contrast, hue, saturation, lightness, and gamma of an image, blur and sharpen images, as well as apply your custom filters to images. The raster image class suite wouldn't be complete without a class for image transformations, which is QRasterImageTransformation ([.h](Qcore/Graphics/RasterImagic/QRasterImageTransformation.h), [.cpp](Qcore/Graphics/RasterImagic/QRasterImageTransformation.cpp), [.inl](Qcore/Graphics/RasterImagic/QRasterImageTransformation.inl), [.mcr](Qcore/Graphics/RasterImagic/QRasterImageTransformation.mcr)) and is able to resize any of the 33 supported types of raster images, rotate image by an arbitrary angle, and skew images, all with any of the 7 supported interpolations, such as bilinear, bicubic, nearest-neighbor, and others. Finally, there is the QDiscretePlotting class ([.h](Qcore/Graphics/RasterImagic/QDiscretePlotting.h), [.cpp](Qcore/Graphics/RasterImagic/QDiscretePlotting.cpp), [.inl](Qcore/Graphics/RasterImagic/QDiscretePlotting.inl), [.mcr](Qcore/Graphics/RasterImagic/QDiscretePlotting.mcr)) that, as a part of the 2D capabilities of Qcore, implements the fastest algorithms for plotting lines, circles, ellipses, quadratic Bezier curves, and cubic Bezier curves in raster images.


